I imagine many of you are at least
surface level familiar with Redux.
If you're not, it's like a centralized
store for state in React.
A central concept to Redux
is the concept of a reducer.
A reducer is just a fancy way
of saying I have a function,
that function takes in a bit of state.
It takes an action and it gives you back
a new bit of state, that's really it.
So we have this function here, let's just
make that really small, called a reducer.
It takes in some piece of state,
our state just
looks like if I can find
it right here it has an h,
it has an s and it has an l, right?
That's all it is.
It's an object with
three properties on it.
And then it takes an action and
that action is gonna have
a type of some variety, right?
Is it gonna be INCREMENT_H,
DECREMENT_H, INCREMENT_S, DECREMENT_S,
INCREMENT_L or DECREMENT_L, right?
That's it.
Those are the six options for
how to modify this
particular bit of state.
Why are we doing it this way?
It seems like some indirection
to do it this way.
The reason why you can do this is now
when you change state, you can test that.
So this reducer is now very testable.
That has no side effects.
All it does is it takes in state and
an action and gives you back new state.
That is very testable.
Most problems in user interfaces
come from mismanaged state.
And so making your changing
state testable is very valuable.
So I have this HSL.
If you're not familiar with HSL,
it's a way of describing color,
just like RGB, right?
Or lab or any one of those.
It's hue, saturation, and
lightness, I believe.
It's just a way of describing color.
And I'm using this to basically kind
of cheat a little bit to make it so
that if you change the hue or the
saturation of something, or the lightness.
Generally, you can rotate yourself around
the color wheel and the text kind of
remains readable as long as you're on the
opposite side of the color wheel, right?
Not totally true.
You'd have to get into lab color space to
really guarantee something to be readable.
But you can see it's pretty close, right?
I'm rotating around the color wheel and
it's the text is still
remaining fairly readable.
Which is I think pretty neat, right?
This is not great.
This probably doesn't pass double a,
right?
But yeah, that definitely doesn't.
But most of these do,
like that does, right?
Anyway all this is doing
is it's passing in actions,
which you can see here I'm
doing a dispatch here.
And the type is INCREMENT_S or
DECREMENT_S.
In this function all it does is it's
basically the H is just rotating
around zero to 360, and
then going back around, right?
HSL is like a color wheel basically,
right?
So in other words,
you're just imitating Redux behavior, but
using just React,
using this hook called useReducer.
Some people basically say like, I never
use useState, I only use useReducer.
It's a replacement for useState, right?
UseState and useReducer accomplish
the same thing, just different ways.
I find this a bit heavy handed.
I think in this case,
it's kind of elegant.
So if I'm doing something like
this where I have to have some
sort of complex interaction between of
how my state is changing over time,
useReducer is a elegant way to solve that.
But if I'm just going from true
to false and false to true,
I'm just gonna do useState.
That seems way easier to me.